Let's start by looking at the DirectoryMonitorMessageSource.
We extend the AbstractMessageSource,
specifying that we support any type of object. We define a Jackson ObjectMapper,
which will deserialize a JSON file on the local file system to an
object. We define the directory we want to monitor and the entityClass
to which to deserialize the file's contents.
We define a simple constructor that accepts this directory
and the entityClass, as well as an empty constructor and
some getter and setter methods.
The doReceive method is where we implement our business logic.
We create an ArrayList to hold our results.
Then we create a new File object with the configure directory and call its
ListFiles method. We iterate over all the files in the directory,
deserialize them to the specified entityClass using a Jackson ObjectMapper,
and then add them to our list of results.
Finally,
we use Spring Integration's MessageBuilder to construct a
new message with results as its payload.
To complete the class, we override the
AbstractMessageSource's getComponentType method to return
the string directory‑monitor:inbound‑channel‑adapter.
This method is required because the AbstractMessageSource
implements the name component interface and Spring will use
this name in its bean management.
Now that we have a MessageSource,
the CustomInboundChannelAdapterConfig class will use it. We define two channels.
The reservationFromCustomChannel is the channel to which
individual reservations will be published and the
reservationListFromCustomChannel is the channel to which our
MessageSource will publish a list of reservations.
The directoryMonitorMessageSource method is annotated with the
InboundChannelAdapter annotation, specifying that it will publish its
messages to the reservationListFromCustomChannel, and it includes a
poller that invokes the bean every 5 seconds.
Inside the method, we create a new DirectoryMonitorMessageSource,
passing it the directory to monitor, namely the reservations directory,
as well as the entityClass to which to deserialize the files in that directory,
namely the Reservation.class.
Finally,
because the DirectoryMonitorMessageSource returns a list of reservations,
we create a splitter that listens for messages on the
reservationListFromCustomChannel and publishes messages to
the reservationFromCustomChannel.
It extracts the message payload,
which is a list of reservations, and returns it to the splitter.
The splitter will create new messages for each individual reservation in the
list and publish them to the reservationFromCustomChannel.
A reservation is a plain, old Java object that manages three fields,
an id, a name, and status.
The ReservationListener is a Spring service with a
ServiceActivator that listens for reservations published to the
reservationFromCustomChannel and logs them.
Now that we know how to read messages,
let's look at how we write them. The
DirectoryMonitorMessageHandler extends the AbstractMessageHandler class.
It creates a Jackson ObjectMapper and defines the
directory to which to write objects.
We override the handleMessageInternal method,
which has passed the message to process. We generate a unique UUID for
the file name, and then create a path object that concatenates the
configure directory with the uuid .json file name.
Finally,
we use the Jackson ObjectMapper to write the message payload to the path's file.
The CustomOutboundChannelAdapterConfig is a Spring configuration class.
It defines a reservation to CustomChannel and then a
customMessageHandler method with a ServiceActivator that
listens for messages on that channel.
We create a new instance of our DirectoryMonitorMessageHandler, specifying that
it should write its messages to the reservations directory.
Finally,
we define a MessagingGateway named CreateReservationGateway that
publishes messages to the reservationToCustomChannel when its
createReservation method is invoked.
The reservation service is a Spring service with the
CreateReservationGateway wired into it that publishes reservations to
the gateway when its createReservation method is called.
Finally,
the CustomAdaptersApplication is a command line Spring boot application with
the ReservationService wired into it that creates six Reservations and sends
them to the ReservationService every 2 seconds.
Then we wait 3 seconds before exiting the
application for everything to complete.
Let's run the code and review the logs. From the logs, we can see
the ReservationService creating reservations,
and we can see the ReservationListener receiving those reservations.
One thing to note is that we did not add logic to skip the
messages that we've already processed,
so you'll see the same messages processed multiple times.
I'll leave that for you to work on if you're so inclined.
Additionally, if you run the application multiple times,
you'll see that it will discover your previous runs, so you might want to delete existing files before you run the application.